The von Wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level.
It outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies.
But it would have an overall remit, particularly, for instance, in requesting the authority to investigate particular areas requiring research.
That is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do.
When it comes to medical checks and so on, I do not have all the information needed to give a proper answer.
A proposal has been drafted for a directive to amend the directive on the working time of non-consultant hospital doctors.
One issue which is referred to in the van der Laan report is the whole question of the Gaza hospital.
We are seeking to implement best practice.
It has been mainly used in the environmental field, but, of course also when it comes to human health.
They have to look at, for example, the concerns of people in relation to a special issue, and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case.
You have to assess all that and evaluate the science.
The question is, furthermore, one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way.
We need to consider how we will deal with situations of this kind.
I would nonetheless like, as others have done, to touch upon the procedure, which is unclear and, above all, unwanted.
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union.
We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter.
As I have said, we have both the knowledge and the resources to cope with these issues.
In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations.
Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency.
Mrs Stenzel' s report has, however, turned out very well, at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned.
However, I would like to concentrate on the management bodies.
These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes.
However, the directive also encompasses the authorisation of antibiotics, drugs, growth-promoters and genetically-modified organisms.
However, I should like once again to raise the issue of antibiotics.
We talk a great deal about the precautionary principle but, in the case of antibiotics, it has long since been forgotten.
I wish to stress how important it is for us to remain free of disease.
ECHO is currently focusing on the provision of medical supplies and emergency health care, on support to institutions as well as vaccination.
However, efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province.
Secondly, under the reconstruction programme, urgent intervention at the hospital in Mitrovica has already been initiated with a EUR 1 million rehabilitation programme.
We expect to dedicate a considerable sum to improving the healthcare system.
The emphasis will be on long-term reforms covering health financing as well as training and procurement.
Within the framework of the action plan, each individual directorate general is to prepare its own programme of measures.
It is important not only for the environment but also for public health.
This is difficult to reconcile with the needs of an effective management system.
That is why we want annual reports, we want an annual inter-service group and we want a complaints procedure, to make sure action is actually taken.
All these cases are characterised by the fact that they have been taken care of.
The second concerns the management of welfare systems and those who operate them.
It is important to adjust the procedure for two reasons.
We must primarily ensure that the basic needs of the poorest people in the countries most affected by the AIDS disease are fully met.
The postal service is also the social service. The postal service is also the doctor.
He tells the story of a Serbian doctor who has just been murdered in Pristina.
It is systematic monitoring which will reveal this.
This immediate need will subsequently be replaced by a requirement for medicine to prevent epidemics, which have apparently already broken out, and aid for reconstruction.
Both biological and economic information are included.
There are other differences that exist in the policy for inspections of disease, fallowing periods, restriction on movement of contaminated fish and materials and others.
During the debate, a number of important issues linked to our disease-control strategy have been raised including compensation.
Council Decision 90/424 constitutes another instrument for Community financial support in case of disease outbreaks.
The intention of this proposal is to introduce a tool for combating the disease in emergency situations.
You also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease.
I do wonder why public health cannot be mentioned in this respect.
The prime concern of the European citizens, after health, is probably employment.
That means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work.
It must ensure the quality of food products and consumer health.
These conditions and restrictions, which are not linked to health issues, are the fulcrum of the common position.
These complications ought to be studied more closely.
This is why we recommend an extremely thorough, and I might almost say clinical analysis of these matters, in the interests of the internal market.
The use of prognosis models is specified as a prerequisite of thresholds for alerting the public, something which would make the way in which the public is informed or alerted less reliable.
We should intervene with the Security Council individually and collectively to ensure that medicines are delivered to the people.
They need to become directly involved and given co-responsibility in order to improve their conditions.
Analysis of test data is carried out on an on-going basis by a special TB investigation unit.
Routine post-mortem examinations are carried out by veterinary surgeons employed by the Department on all animals slaughtered.
I understand considerable work has been done on laboratory-based blood tests for TB.
Then we can use the simplified procedure.
Furthermore, the shortage of medical and food aid has made deaths from these treatable diseases epidemic.
Those of us who really care know the great difficulties of this subject.
In circumstances where there might be a conflict between the protection of consumers, particularly their health, and monetary issues, public health must, of course, take precedence.
You have just said that public health takes priority over employment and economic considerations.
These will enable us to focus on the key objectives of the partnership and will also improve the disbursement rate on MEDA.
The implementation of MEDA has been subject to criticism, some justified, some not.
We shall use MEDA to support the partners' efforts in this respect.
MEDA supports, among other things, the interconnection of infrastructure as regards energy, transport and new technology.
In the few seconds allocated to me, I will simply refer to two aspects which I believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the MEDA programmes.
It is also important to give new impetus to the MEDA programmes and at the same time to strengthen programmes such as MEDA-Democracy, Euromed-Audiovisual, and sub-regional training programmes for journalists.
They must be adequately looked after, and, in particular, given access to medical care, social entitlements, and education for children.
Commissioner Byrne quite rightly said that, as far as he was concerned, public health took priority.
This applies in particular in the case of foodstuffs and medication.
It is established and legitimate practice in both academic and biopharmaceutical research to genetically manipulate human cells in tissue culture.
And we have to investigate the deep-seated reasons for this scourge in order to attempt to find an effective cure for the problem.
Secondly, improving reception conditions should also include providing access to health care for all, the provision of education for children, and also training.
I am thinking, for example, of nitrites, nitrates and sulphites which are known to present proven health problems.
One of these is the supply of ingredients or components of foodstuffs to patients with dietary needs.
Secondly, the effects on public health must obviously be assessed on a scientific basis.
On the contrary, what is needed is a thorough examination on the basis of pertinent sources of information and a conscientious appraisal of the results.
Secondly, the question of the disciplinary procedure.
We are extremely concerned at both the irregularities committed within the scope of the MED and ECHO programmes and at some of the details of the Fléchard case.
The question of access to information in order to be able to carry out the discharge procedure with the required degree of seriousness and with the documents which you need for the discharge process was central to various interventions.
There has been a specific procedure for questionnaires in the past.
The main thrust of our aim therefore must be better education leading to better health care.
At the same time, Africa needs sound budget management combined with effective social policy, good education policy and sound health care.
Very often with ECHO one is talking about food, medicine and blankets.
When travelling, they rely on being able to obtain treatment at dialysis units other than those they normally use.
According to these rules, dialysis qualifies as emergency treatment, provided that the purpose of the visit is non-medical.
For example, more prominence could be given to hospitals which make efforts to provide such facilities, or attractive European prizes could perhaps be announced for those which take the relevant measures.
It has nothing to do with whether someone is chronically ill or an acute case.
The decisive question is whether or not this is emergency treatment and the answer to this question is yes.
I think it is important for health reasons.
Firstly, the protection of public health.
One condition, for example, could be that the identification and registration system must be fully implemented and observed.
Proposed Amendment No 48 refers to information on the use of antibiotics or stimulants and to fattening methods.
Of course, the health and well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance.
I saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care, as well as food and proper shelter.
Let us therefore acknowledge the obvious and return to tried and tested prescriptions.
The issue is crisis management and humanitarian actions which are commonly referred to in Community parlance as the 'Petersberg tasks' .
Should we make more use of comitology procedures?
For my part, I would refer to the procedure which seems to me in this case to be important.
We think the issue needs to be examined country by country to ensure adequate analysis adapted to each case.
However, no explanation is given as to who will benefit from, and who will suffer under, this procedure.
I am also not convinced about the scientific basis as far as certain aspects of public health are concerned.
Moreover, when dealing with public health, the Commission must make a proposal on the basis of the chapter on "Public Health" in the Treaty.
We will closely monitor this appointments policy, which must be open and decisive.
First and foremost, appointments must be based on the candidate' s merits.
This is what is to be inferred from a careful examination which is not merely concerned with numbers.
The question was also raised of women' s appointments.
In our view these are the people who really have the ability to carry out this management.
We plan to set up training schemes for these authorities and a cooperation plan involving the exchange of know-how and adoption of best national practice.
To be honest, the Commission is behaving here like the doctor who proposes decapitation as a cure for a headache.
Decision on urgent procedure
In order to do so, we must focus on the effectiveness of the procedures set in place, particularly under OLAF.
Both the ECHO and MED cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs.
One of the important measures recommended in the regulation is the establishment of rapid diagnosis tests, because rapid detection is one of the keys to combating this disease.
A second key measure is to establish an ongoing epidemiological study based partly on laboratory tests using an established protocol.
"Prevention is better than cure" , as Hippocrates said all those years ago, thereby paving the way for preventive medicine.
The development of BSE in France raises issues that are not purely medical in the narrowest sense.
One important aspect of this view is the whole-herd slaughter on a farm where disease has been discovered.
They have both rendered an enormous service to the health protection of Europe's citizens.
On disease eradication: I accept Amendments Nos 25 and 28.
We see that the junior doctors are, in fact, going to get a great benefit from this extension to the directive.
The third area I want to concentrate on - and it is what other speakers have mentioned - relates to junior doctors.
Those parts of the directive can, of course, be subject to derogation but only by collective agreement so those elements will apply to junior doctors.
The present situation is not good for patients or doctors alike - they have our life in their hands.
This is a health and safety issue, as has been said, for both the workers concerned and for the public.
I consider that would be a real health and safety issue requiring rapid action.
I think this is a serious matter, because it is about patients having to suffer and about doctors being placed in impossible situations, from both moral and personal points of view.
Young doctors do not choose these working conditions and working hours but are forced to accept them.
The most contentious part of the directive was bound to relate to doctors in training who would benefit from this piece of legislation.
We also had to take account of the viability of health services as things now stand and competitiveness in sectors such as transport and fisheries.
The upshot is that the provisions of the working directive will apply to doctors in training, workers at sea, rail workers and all non-mobile workers in excluded sectors.
I would seek an assurance that the Commission will enquire into this and ask the Chinese authorities whether they are providing the appropriate medical treatment.
I am certain that they will follow previous practice in making enquiries of the Chinese authorities as to the quality and consistency of the treatment of Mr Xu for hepatitis.
These include working conditions which I think are a corollary to the movement of services.
What are the conditions under which services are provided?
So if we want to examine the problem in its entirety, we need to have, and to provide, the necessary responses.
It is, of course, important for health and safety to be regulated and not compromised over, and this is also true, of course, of training.
Madam President, I voted for the report on the conciliation process concerning the organisation of working time, first and foremost in support of the article on doctors in training.
The doctors will need to have learnt their trade well, free from considerations of working time.
Needless to say, we feel for the many Member States which struggle with inadequate staffing levels in their health sector.
The position of these doctors in training is similar in many countries: working weeks of 70 and 80 hours in conditions that are occasionally disgraceful and sometimes dangerous to patients.
The recent strike by junior doctors in France showed that such a situation was not acceptable, either for the doctors, the patients or the public health service.
With national research policies, the methodology exists.
The evidence in support of this is very convincing; many problems can be overcome by investing, for example, in the primary health care of women.
I thank the two Members who are doctors for taking immediate action and for giving me this information.
I am a nurse which is why I went up to see if I could give assistance.
Madam President, maybe at long last we will decide that the Medical Services should not be placed in the basement.
These victims should also have free access to shelter, medical and psychological assistance, social services, help in finding work, etc.
The report recommends possible solutions which have already been successfully implemented, such as issuing victims with residence permits and providing protection and free healthcare.
This is largely to do with the way in which the discussion of this report has been forced upon us, against normal procedures.
It is an excellent report which deals with the equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial and ethnic origin, in general.
I would like to finish by raising the question of clients.
Other interested parties, including professional insurance bodies and consumer organisations, will also be consulted.
Decision on urgent procedure
This majority confirms the quality of your work and the care which has gone into it.
Treating each case individually will enable us to do this and to establish a type of reaction that is appropriate to the type of crisis and in line with the will of the people.
It is about intervention.
This is a leading concept which recurs in many interventions.
Thirdly, the facility for rapid, targeted intervention.
I agree that third countries should set their own health rules but we should not approve of double standards.
But we are responsible for the health of our citizens and we must decide on rules here.
Protecting public health is effectively our responsibility.
This also raises the whole issue of education and of health education in particular.
On health, the need was noted for a holistic approach in terms of sexual rights and not just in the area of reproductive health. Special references were introduced, also on the EU' s initiative, to handicapped migrant women, elderly women and native women.
We must find a measure which is appropriate for the reactions and the various situations.
Therefore, they can decide on a case-by-case basis as they see fit.
In the case of this programme we had to deal with the staff who were available, due to the constraints of human resources.
I have consulted the services involved.
Management at this level allows for a high degree of coordination and exchange of best practice between those involved.
As to my second point: monitoring, evaluation and control.
This medical doctor forms part of the political leadership of the moderate Serbs in Kosovo.
It is precisely this system that is to serve as the basis for the "common standards on asylum procedures" .
It is not the symptoms of the problem that must be treated, but the cause.
It is appropriate that at the moment we are assessing the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction.
All those colleagues who are interested in having a drugs policy based on people' s needs will, I hope, do likewise.
The treatment centres house young people who are able to access them because they are helped either by their family or by the wider social environment.
It is used to monitor this serious phenomenon and determine the approach to be taken in a multidimensional policy at national and European level.
I think it is important for us to analyse what these differences, in the guise of policy, in fact look like when it comes to problems such as drug abuse by young people.
I would like to ask you what the reason is behind this procedure.
Realistic in the sense that practice and theory are two different things.
There is a wide range of considerations to be taken into account.
Guidelines will also have to be drawn up for harmonising the price observation criteria and processing the data gathered so as to ensure that maximum care is taken in comparing the situations of the different Member States.
In addition to these general rules, we have also proposed amendments to the directives which apply to doctors.
Doctors are a sensitive issue, human health is a very sensitive issue.
The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore sets great store by the following conclusion: first, that specialists should also keep up with general practice while training as specialists.
Differential diagnostics continue to change, which is why specialist training must also include general practice.
That is as important for patients and, in the final analysis, for all citizens, as it is for the medical profession itself.
The medical associations have been pressing us upon this point and I fully agree with them.
A study should be carried out on this, something which is also called for in the Karas report.
I am referring in particular to the skills of nurses and doctors.
In voting for the motion, I therefore call for medical assistance to be provided for the citizens who are least well-off as well.
More generally, they result from the fact that a society marked by inequality inevitably ends up with multiple track medical services.
When we deal with issues relating to the health of young children, the commitment is often strong, wholehearted and sincere.
In this scientific assessment, it is a concern for young children' s health that is being expressed.
The studies included tests on animals, which is common practice with regard to suspected substances.
The social and health cost of a hasty decision may be medically and economically irreparable.
I think that would be a sensible health policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, guaranteeing public health is the objective of one of today' s most important areas of legislation.
We are all concerned about public health and consumer protection.
They get inspected. Action is taken.
Quality evaluation is one of those.
We should use what we have, comparing the knowledge we each possess and then operating on the basis of that knowledge.
We are proposing, as we did last year, a database mechanism so that petitioners and Members can track the progress of reports and see where the problems lie.
We would like to be involved in preparing joint reports on areas of particular concern such as the environment, social security, consumer protection and so on.
The greatest problem is probably the long procedure which follows a complaint by a citizen.
Secondly, because we must more vigorously tackle risks to the health of mother and child associated with working conditions;
We have achieved it by adopting this procedure for the case in point.
It fulfils a health function.
On the contrary, this labelling is just as important as establishing health guarantees.
What I expect of the Monitoring Centre is to take stock of the situation objectively and to look at it in comparative terms, so as to allow the policy-makers to react to it.
The report says that an exchange of best practice would be useful.
For example in relation to water, soil, our health, flora, fauna and indeed climate, it is extremely important that proper information is made available.
Having expressed these reservations, I shall summarise the MEDA programme.
The MEDA programmes have always been surrounded by too much fuss, and they still are. It is totally pointless to return dwell on this fuss.
The Commission has proposed a new MEDA regulation and in it asks us for speedier decision-making procedures.
The MEDA programme also raises fundamental questions about our Euro-Mediterranean policy in general.
An evaluation of MEDA I and the wording of MEDA II clearly demonstrate the need for this.
Transparency and control are important aspects that will enhance the quality of MEDA projects.
It makes no sense to treat MEDA differently.
We support the plea regarding the simplification of MEDA's management procedures and the strengthening of its strategic and integrated approach.
So, the reform of programmes like MEDA goes right to the heart of what we are trying to do in the Commission.
Joint reports are produced, either at the request of headquarters, or on the initiative of heads of missions.
Now the disease has taken a heavy toll among those trained adults of working age.
But the epidemic is putting a heavy burden on the care system, making the modernisation of the health sector even more difficult.
We must urgently strengthen prevention programmes, improve the research effort geared to developing countries and give all patients real access to treatment.
Major cooperation must be established between donors, recipients, the pharmaceutical industry and associations to provide the operational systems for access to treatment.
Guaranteeing access to quality treatment, information and the necessary resources for all must be the aim of the European Community.
Consideration of access to treatment is not new.
We recognise that the production of generic drugs could greatly improve access to care and treatment for HIV/Aids.
And in our opinion, three key concepts apply: information and prevention, affordable treatment, and care of those left behind.
And as for the care for those left behind, I would draw your attention to the many orphans this illness has already created.
Prevention cannot succeed unless it is accompanied by access to treatment.
It is also important to have new kinds of cooperation with the pharmaceuticals industry so that we can produce not only vaccines, but also medicines.
In the meantime, the scale of the costs here makes it more necessary to emphasise prevention rather than cure.
The action programme is basically devoted to matters relating to problems of migration and asylum.
Monitoring is to be facilitated by means of a detailed financial report and by the Community' s ability to review payments in the light of whether or not the measures have in practice been carried out.
Because the acceptance procedures are long and difficult, it is often necessary to take out a second health insurance in the host country.
Likewise, we must include the quality of the studies and the issue of health amongst the significant sectors affected.
Establishing the best way to deal with these issues will require practical experience.
And these are indeed the purposes served by the MEDA funding programme.
And this is the aim of the common-sense MEDA programme.
However, the report on the reform of the MEDA programme does not set the right tone on a number of counts.
With the amendments that we are proposing in this report, the MEDA programme will have simplified, decentralised and transparent implementation procedures.
Amending the MEDA regulation with a view to improving the decision-making process and simplifying the procedure for implementing projects is an important stage in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
We have to examine situations case by case.
As the wife of a doctor, I am extremely concerned that such research should be allowed to develop.
We must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine, technology and science, as a matter of urgency.
Is not every person entitled to health and welfare?
These implications are, in themselves, medical.
The Public Health Directorate intends to carry out an information campaign to help contractors to understand the Commission's procedures and requirements more clearly.
There is a competence to deal with these issues relating to animal welfare.
Mr President, preventive health care is a major priority for everyone here in this House.
In this way, the directive would do justice to the demands which will have to be made upon it in view of the risk of actual damage to public health.
Within its possibilities the Commission will continue to monitor the situation and report on it within the framework of existing reports on the principle of equal treatment.
For this purpose, we ask for the intervention of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency.
The cure is worse than the disease.
In the first place, technically speaking it is a question of the same sort of procedure.
This decision was taken before giving due consideration to numerous crucial medical, moral and social issues.
These procedures should be applied with due care, intelligence and maturity.
Particularly for elderly people, the subject of health becomes increasingly important on into old age.
In the short term we have to help the direct victims of this oil crisis, but it has to be done with the proper care and focus.
That is why we try to help applicant countries to develop and implement health and safety policies.
I have said in other interventions that, in my opinion, it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction.
When and if that happens, the health of our economies is also affected.
We are consultees.
The cure would be worse than the disease.
This survey must be followed up in a practical way by implementing measures appropriate to each situation. These measures are to be included in action programmes.
It has also led to increasing levels of care and concern across the borders.
That is why it is critical that we, as the controlling and accountable body, have access to information on the financial management of these two areas.
The second aspect relating to staffing policy concerns the disciplinary procedure.
In practice, it is the security or guarantee body that assesses the risks of the operation.
Expertise in the field is necessary; you need to meet the people; you need to know what people have to put up with there, what the conditions are.
Another point, which is very topical at the moment, is animal disease control.
The fourth point I want to make concerns medical expenses, or the possibility of benefiting from provisions for medical care in another Member State.
These questions concern hospital care and the Dutch health system.
What we do need is for the assessments in question to be made available.
It is precisely that kind of service which ought to be looked into.
These operations covered the distributions of foodstuffs and first aid and the operations also ensured medical aid and a supply of drinking water to the displaced persons from the archipelago.
With regard to the form of proceedings, the method of the report was discussed.
In addition, we must re-examine the process by which, and the level at which, decisions are made.
We should confine ourselves, within the framework of these two reports, to addressing the problems and discussing various possible solutions.
Abused women accounted for more than 30% of the patients in a hospital we visited.
The issue ought to be investigated by organisations and institutions with competence within this area.
We welcome this report, together with the report which the World Health Organisation (WHO) is at present in the process of compiling on the same subject.
I therefore share the anxiety expressed regarding the health of all these people.
They have the right to be informed of the cause of their condition without delay, and we shall devote all our energy to doing so.
This combines action on the one hand to address immediate problems with longer term assistance.
This is what the European Union needs to address while we monitor very carefully the results of medical testing.
But in addition to this we must also care for the people who live in the regions, for their health and the health of their children.
In this connection we clearly have to adopt a position on our approach to the matter of people' s health, although we might not see a direct connection, for instance, with leukaemia.
Under the MEDA Programme, by way of example, the RRF will be used in particular for the training of immigration service officials and cooperation in combating terrorism.
The explanatory statement sets out our justified concerns regarding this important issue, which affects the health of soldiers involved in operations in difficult areas.
Then we are, of course, deviating slightly from the principle of individual treatment, but the basic answer to the MEP' s question is: yes.
It is a matter of the life and health of numerous people - but, above all, those of the young citizens of Europe.
We must identify and seek where possible to remedy them.
Above all, we need to take a systematic approach to these problems.
promote research and develop forest products for multiple purposes, such as medical applications.
The health of certain of these prisoners is a matter of serious concern.
The MEDA democracy programme should continue to be used to fund positive actions and MEDA allocations themselves should be more dependent on adequate progress.
Both reports rightly pay much attention to the need to improve MEDA, which one or two of the speakers who are still present in the Chamber mentioned during their remarks.
People who are seriously ill are turned back and medical staff beaten up.
This will depend very much on the subject and activity from case to case.
Firstly, apart from architects and, in some respects, veterinary surgeons, they are all health-care professions in the widest sense.
That is why we have compensation for pain and suffering.
In the field of medicine, we shall in future not only have rules and criteria for the recognition of diplomas, examination certificates and other attestations of competence.
Given the very rapid pace of technological and scientific progress in medicine, lifelong learning in one' s chosen profession is particularly important.
Or the Minister for Health, who demonstrated a lazy incompetence in this matter?
Let me now deal with some of the issues that you raised surrounding public health and the procedures that are needed.
This vigilance must be practised across the board, from veterinary treatment to husbandry practices.
I sincerely ask you ladies and gentlemen, to revise your view on this issue, give consumer health a greater priority.
There was proper consultation.
Prioritising action by means of cost-benefit analyses will also be an important factor in determining how the most urgent measures should be implemented first, without wasting money.
On the other hand, we have a moral duty to engage in consultation.
Who will assume responsibility for medical examination programmes for the populations of the areas affected by depleted uranium bombs?
The World Health Organisation will also issue a report on the subject in the near future.
The more I read about this procedure, the more it sets me thinking.
As regards dosage and thus consumers' health, the system of safe maximum amounts is to be welcomed.
A discussion has now got underway on the physiological function.
It also has to do with consumers' insecurity about their own health.
People' s health is a matter of the utmost concern.
Food supplements can be an aid to health, so those who can afford it will gladly buy themselves good health.
Labelling must allow for accurate health messages, such as for folic acid.
I have some reservations regarding on-board diagnostics and in-service testing.
First of all, that means standards for access for the elderly, for children and for disabled persons.
May I remind the House that Turkey also benefits from the MEDA programme.
This will require an extensive review of pension systems and systems for health care and care of the elderly.
Or are the responsibilities different?
I am not a doctor, nor do I consider myself to be an expert in this subject, and so I have to place my trust in scientists.
People who experience this kind of treatment end up in a Kafkaesque situation.
Will you recommend the adoption of effective emergency measures to combat the current situation: the scourge of hunger, the scourge of cold and the scourge of diseases?
With regard to the report we are dealing with, I should like to point out two aspects I consider important, the treatment of which is surprising.
He has really made an effort, but it is nonetheless still a matter of treating the symptoms.
That means research that produces results that no one needs, uses, criticises or adds to.
Medical supplies, food by the tonne load, clothing, blankets, installations to help provide clean drinking water and also prevent the outbreak of typhoid, cholera and hepatitis.
It is significant that health spending, in particular, was specifically targeted in the Commission' s criticisms of various Member States, one of which was France.
It also requires treating effective management, which is essential for a knowledge-based organisation like the Commission, as a core task of the institution.
That is understood amongst the staff.
We cannot merely continue to treat its symptoms: we have to find a cure.
We know about several cases relating to butter and milk.
There is a serious veterinary problem and a specific medical problem, which is the spread of the disease from livestock to humans.
The situation was reviewed at a meeting of the Standing Veterinary Committee yesterday.
Our current approach is focused on stamping out the disease.
Obviously, we will be considering all these issues in the coming weeks and months in our investigations into the origins of this disease.
In that respect, what progress has been made by your directorate and the Health and Consumer Protection Directorate?
For example, in terms of health care, a court case was brought against South Africa by pharmaceutical multinationals.
Secondly, it is a real threat to public health - or, rather, the absence of public health - in developing countries.
It is our social task to try to make them operational and primary education and health care play a large part in this.
In conclusion, I should like to remark that I have a problem with the term "reproductive health care" in recital aa) and Section 33.
Then there is health policy.
There is certainly an urgent need for affordable and more efficient drugs for basic developing world diseases, such as TB, malaria and sleeping sickness.
It may encourage research into tropical medicines, but it is mainly the European taxpayer who is likely to foot the bill.
A more fundamental requirement seems to me that the poorest countries should obtain cheaper licences for the production and sale of drugs against basic diseases.
Mr Rod also mentioned access to medicines.
Giving priority to health and education agreed and so on.
I believe that this condition is crucial.
Public health must be the main priority of the CAP, an expectation not only shared by consumers, but supported by the whole of the farming community as well.
The Member States' responsibility for the problems arising out of BSE is also emphasised, as is the fact that alternative methods of funding ought to be considered for when animal diseases break out.
They include health, the environment, and social affairs, and not just as three separate issues.
In Zambia, treatment of one member of a family for pneumonia will take up the family's entire monthly budget.
Mr President, this proposal is about dealing with symptoms of an exceptionally serious disease.
Many colleagues today have spoken on the basis of experience in their own countries of how these issues are handled.
In other words, there must be information given on the methods used in taking measurements.
Quite simply, they must be given help in asking the right questions in the right places, both orally and in writing, and in finding answers to these.
These are the requests I have received and they would be useful in the context of combating this disease.
What we are trying to do in this case is to find a combination of actions within the framework of this information and consultation.
It is about all those who contract chronic illnesses, for example chronic bronchitis, because of the burning of fossil fuels.
It is not only, therefore, a question of tightening up limit values but, to just as great an extent, a matter of our people' s health.
If we opt for the Council' s line, we in actual fact choose poorer health for our citizens in a situation in which children and asthmatics are among the most vulnerable.
To guide this debate, I think that at some point we must ask ourselves about the usefulness of a questionnaire.
We therefore need a wider-ranging overview of pension systems and a discussion of the design of childcare and possibly also health care and care of the elderly.
When we look at Pristina we see that the hospital is under great stress.
The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on foot-and-mouth disease.
An outbreak of so infectious and serious a disease as foot-and-mouth is always extraordinarily painful for everyone affected.
All this to check whether any contagious diseases are being imported into the United States.
Although draconian measures have been adopted in the various Member States, we must recognise the risk that the disease will spread.
In this work, it is important that people receive on-going information in order to be able to assess connections and the whole picture.
The best visibility is obtained by running an effective and professional operation.
It is supposed to heal diseases, solve the problem of world hunger and create better people.
We are now seeing the problems of access to generic drugs to combat AIDS in the African nations, Brazil and countries in Asia.
In medicine, it is a question of helping certain individuals whose lives would be seriously compromised if they were not given such treatment.
In the meantime, patience and research are called for.
Mr President, fair access to drugs to combat HIV and other diseases is, I believe, a very important issue.
In this, preconditions, such as a sound local infrastructure and stability play a crucial role in the approach to health care.
Drugs have an optimum effect if continuity in dispensing and expert supervision in treatment are guaranteed.
Otherwise there is a real risk of incorrect or inadequate treatment.
That is why South Africa passed a law in 1997 so that its sufferers could benefit from suitable care.
You need funding for infrastructure, to test the patient, to diagnose and to monitor his progress.
Then you have the access to medication.
Medical infrastructure is required, so that drugs can be dispensed in controlled conditions.
In these discussions the issue of affordability of key pharmaceuticals often takes the most prominent position.
What is also shocking is the complete neglect of the national health care system and of education by Niyazov's regime.
Speeches on procedure
We can accept experiments on animals for the development and testing of essential medicines.
In certain cases it is quite simply necessary to carry out tests on animals, in particular where acute skin and eye intolerances are concerned.
Of course that will also be relevant in the application of PVC to medical goods.
We have endeavoured, with everybody' s help, to draft a constructive report based on two lines of approach: the quantitative and the qualitative.
Some of its leading practitioners already have.
This is demonstrated by the detailed questionnaires, but also and above all by the report before us.
What are the exact procedures to be followed in those cases?
We must finally overcome this contradiction: the two things must be possible, trade and a sensible policy on the disease.
First of all, we need to initiate an in-depth discussion of the developments in farming which have allowed such diseases to occur.
However, I am left with some questions about the effectiveness of the controls up to the point of the outbreak of the first disease.
Why do you not announce here and now that we need a different policy on disease?
Experts, however, do call for strategic vaccination in the event of an outbreak, obviously accompanied by failsafe registration.
Are you satisfied with the UK's response to this disease?
That is what this crisis of foot-and-mouth disease signifies.
I have read reports from virologists and vets who claim that, in this day and age, adopting a non-vaccination policy is much like sitting on a time bomb.
Apparently, there are a number of diseases which we still do not have under control, such as swine fever, and now also foot-and-mouth disease, by all accounts.
The situation in the regions where there have been outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease is critical.
With the tragedy of FMD following on from BSE and swine fever we must review in a rational way the common agricultural policy.
The operations funded focus mostly on basic health care.
However, depending on how the situation develops, some limited funding might be made available to continue a medical programme in Georgia.
What you mention in your supplementary question sounds more like health support, not directed specifically to the victims of the conflict.
Public health action programme (2001-2006)
Mr President, the health programme on which we are about to vote is the first integrated EU venture in this sector.
In this new programme, an overall approach is adopted, both for health and the methods, mechanisms and practices used to tackle health issues.
The first objective is to collect, process and disseminate medical data, information, practices and knowledge from all sources.
The second objective is to create a mechanism for a direct, rapid and coordinated Community response to health threats.
These factors will be studied, so that a strategy and policies can be drawn up designed to ensure that individual measures are of a high quality and to make health protection more effective.
The programme to tackle health determinants proposes adding the development of strategies and measures on genetic, antenatal and biological determinants which obviously affect health.
So we urgently need more solid data, and above all, a holistic approach to health throughout Europe.
Gender policies must also be granted a central role in health policy in future: in research, prevention and treatment.
The new Public Health Action Programme can pave the way in this regard.
After the adoption of the European Guidelines for Quality Assurance in Mammography Screening, the task now is to research and promote best practice for treatment as well.
Mr President, today is our first reading of one of the most important matters of concern to the citizens of Europe, the action programme for public health.
We also need to stress how important it is to increase public awareness and for the public to be actively involved in health issues.
I think it is very important that mental health has been included for the first time as an area for action under a public health programme.
In industrial policy it will mean that when we adopt a strategy on chemicals the basic issues of public health must be made very clear.
Initially he talks about the necessary coordination, not only in the networks which deal with health, but with the Member States and also with the non-governmental organisations.
And, as an epilogue, he also talks about a proposal which we agree with: to create a centre for the coordination and monitoring of the health situation.
Communicable diseases which affect the health of our citizens do not stop at borders.
The Commission must be given a central coordinating role in public health to deal with illnesses, from detecting their origin to their actual treatment.
It is very important that homeopathy should also be included as a medical treatment within this European Community action plan on public health.
Public health is national policy, and it should remain that way.
Various diseases can be controlled effectively by means of relatively few resources.
More recently it has been given competence for health promotion and illness prevention and health impact assessments.
Now we have to take this forward with the reforms of our health action programme that this report suggests.
We shall raise standards of health in the European Union, not by directives, but by research, education and the identification and dissemination of good practice.
Health is an issue which opinion poll after opinion poll shows is the number one priority for our citizens across the European Union.
By taking a horizontal approach to public health, we can make the best use of limited resources.
With a rapid reaction unit to tackle communicable disease we can act much more effectively.
With health impact assessments we can detect what works and what does not.
In conclusion, health connects with the citizen.
We must deliver on health and well-being.
This programme represents a fundamental step forward in the development of effective European public health policies.
It is important because protecting and improving public health is at the very centre of our citizens, concerns and expectations.
As we are all aware, the relevance of our public health policy is fast becoming a litmus test of the European Union's credibility for our citizens.
The architecture of the new programme will also ensure a degree of flexibility, so that we can respond to unforeseen health policy issues if and when they arise.
It provides a horizontal framework which will allow a policy-driven approach to be taken in the future on the basis of a broad view of public health.
In other words the programme will provide an invaluable support to health policy-making in the Community.
The programme identifies three strands of action that together will enable us to identify and tackle the major health problems that we face.
First, improving knowledge about people's health, about health interventions and about the functioning of health systems.
Second, anticipating and reacting quickly to major threats to health.
They introduce into the decision references either to specific diseases and conditions or to very precise actions to be taken.
In fact, health in other policies is a fundamental feature of the entire health strategy as such.
To be consistent, the mainstreaming of health in other policies should form part of the mainstream of our three programme strands.
However, the amendments include a substantial number of references to the creation of a health coordination and monitoring centre in the programme decision.
As I said last night, and I will say again, health is an issue which connects with the citizen.
I therefore saw Mrs Trakatellis' important report as the sole means of curing the diseases of all the citizens of Europe.
We consider that questions concerning public health and health care must be determined at national and regional level.
In its specific action plan in the public health sector for 2001-2006, the ÅU caters to the aims and needs of big business and the monopolies in the health sector.
Health systems are now seen as a drain on public funds - rather than an investment in human resources - which need to adhere to the terms of budgetary discipline.
therapeutic and diagnostic measures must not be considered to be exclusively commercial and industrial activities.
But we need much more than that, and the health initiative for the least developed countries - "All but AIDS" - is a case in point.
Also, diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis claim too many victims annually.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0303/2001), by Mr Martinez and others, on behalf of TDI Group, on foot-and-mouth disease in Europe
The market imposes its own health requirements too, with tragic consequences.
Monitoring and control are the main problems.
Whether a rule is a purely professional rule must be determined from one case to the next.
Commissioner Nielson's department have produced an excellent communication and programme for action for communicable infectious diseases, HIV Aids, TB and malaria.
I am very pleased that you mentioned TB and malaria as diseases that we need to give the same emphasis as Aids.
This is another aspect we have tried to include in our communication and the programme of action on these communicable diseases.
We are trying to keep the broad picture of all these diseases at the top of the agenda.
The health situation is alarming, especially for the children.
The most important considerations are the environment and health, the public health of the citizens of Europe.
The European Drugs Monitoring Centre in Portugal has given drug checking a very good report and it continues to be active in this area.
We have two reports concerning the treatment and transport of animals: that will be a very familiar subject for the Commissioner.
It means we are being more effective and more efficient in terms of looking for the disease in the various countries.
That must be spelled out also so that we do not panic the consumer into thinking that the disease is continuing to spread.
The transport of animals is the main reason for the spread of animal diseases, which is why inspection has to be effective.
The change is explained in terms of the fact that the Regulation is aimed at protecting public health.
What we have here is that critical balance between public health requirements and common humanity.
I am most satisfied that the report supports the Commission's general approach on this fundamental question of public health.
In relation to the access to medical and veterinary products for horses, we also have to take into account the whole issue of animal welfare problems.
More emphasis on the listed policy aspects is required if we want to create a knowledge-based society which involves the entire population.
I am also happy to see that this topic has now also been raised in the World Health Organisation.
Ultimately the internal market is best served by a common regime in the field of ingredients and testing, as is public health.
Smoking also leads to substantially increased health care costs in many countries.
We have developed and proposed a qualitative step forward in protecting public health, working within the confines of the legal basis for completion of the internal market.
We need to have a coherent understanding of what constitutes good and what constitutes bad practice.
It has to be looked at on a case-by-case basis.
Threshold levels must be set with regard to human health, not using abstract concepts.
The format of allowing young people to make their views known on an equal footing with health ministers made the dialogue all the more interesting.
It is important, for instance, that school nurses and doctors are trained to spot the problems of excessive drinking by young people.
However, references to good practices and to the role of the medical practitioners are acceptable.
The health of consumers depends on this, as does consumer confidence.
I am concerned over the practice in some Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how a people which has known such pain can inflict it on others so relentlessly.
Access to medicines, for example, has been lifted to the top of the agenda in EU-US relations as well as in multilateral fora.
As my group is positive that a common standpoint can be found for both outstanding problems, we feel that a conciliation procedure would be in order.
It is a drug and should be accepted and recognised as such.
If we are to pursue a responsible policy we must concern ourselves with the health of Europeans, particularly the youngest among them.
In every situation, care must be taken to avoid endangering human life or health for reasons of political expediency.
These are examples of where there is a real need for consultation.
The only way to respond to the suffering of the people is with practical, swift and effective action.
For example, there are opportunities in the specific programme to undertake clinical trials for cancer and degenerative diseases, which are some of the new possibilities opened up by genomics.
Madam President, we are now discussing animal diseases, but Commissioner, humans too still face tragic diseases.
As I understand it, within the first seven categories of research programmes, when health comes in, it is confined to highly scientific biomedical research programmes.
As part of genomics research, it is obvious that there are health policies within this as well.
We could, therefore, put 'co-operate' on, for example, all epidemiological data.
In my opinion, the extremely urgent, serious, emergency issues relating to human health must certainly be considered priorities.
They contain provisions concerning the tasks that we are to have, the distribution of responsibility between different institutions and the rules of procedure.
Let us ensure that we can put these issues into practice.
They take care to study Community law and they make complaints to us and then have the patience to await the result of procedures which sometimes take too long.
I am also thinking of medical reasons and of quite specific situations such as the requirements for minibuses and coaches which the rapporteur has also mentioned.
But of course the saying "prevention is better than cure" applies here too.
They must be treated with respect, and consideration is to be given to their health and welfare.
It is our duty and responsibility to reflect on these concerns.
This issue will be considered in the light of the advice given to us by the Scientific Committee.
The purpose of the report before us is to remedy this situation.
Mr Sacrédeus, our services will find out how that is supposed to be handled.
The Authority' s work should focus on risk assessment and scientific advice, which is no small task of course.
However, this must not of course mean that illnesses and disease also flow freely.
It is the Authority' s task to outline the risks scientifically and to assess them.
This is the procedure contained in our Rules of Procedure.
Of course, the health and well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance.
The stricter the controls, the better it will be for the health of consumers.
These considerations are reflected in this report.
We talk about the information to prospective clients undergoing this operation.
We have to know the clinics that are taking these people in.
We have to know what surgeons are carrying them out.
Finally, there should be comprehensive national lists of registered private clinics and trained plastic surgeons.
Our communication intends to reinforce the implementation of the medical device directive on issues such as conformity assessment, standardisation, monitoring, clinical data etc.
First, we will look into the matter closely and then we will, indeed, consider how we can help your compatriots.
A comparison with the status of similar bodies, such as the European Environment Agency or the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products leads us to the conclusion that these agencies have wider areas of competence and more scope for initiative.
Not just their health, but their rest times and suitable working conditions.
That is why they need to be addressed in this report.
It is intended to meet the needs and the cover the risks of the most serious situations, such as those that have been mentioned here at some length.
The needs of women and children are specifically addressed in mother-and-child health programmes.
All aim to treat malnutrition among children under five years of age, as well as monitoring the health status of women, in particular nursing mothers and pregnant women.
Usually, NGOs also provide their female patients with elementary hygiene education.
Medical NGOs play an important role in the professional training of women.
They organise medical training sessions for small groups of women in cooperation with the Taleban Ministry of Health.
Female health monitors go from house to house visiting women in order to provide them with basic information on hygiene, primary health care and conservation of water and food.
The basic and multilaterally agreed health policy principles of WHO should be secured on how it is managed.
This is also true in cases where countries choose to opt for treatment.
But the treatment is ongoing year after year, and the impact on national health budgets, even if they are given these anti-retroviral drugs for free, is incredible.
The real bottleneck in the use of advanced complex medical treatments is not necessarily access to the drugs but the organisation of their delivery.
What we have done is to apply pressure by announcing a total untying with regard to all essential drugs used to treat these transmittable diseases.
I have a particular interest in this, because the cure was actually pioneered in my home city of Edinburgh 70 years ago.
There is good reason to give more attention to TB and malaria.
There is a need for regular evaluation and reporting on the implementation, to assess whether the reporting systems work.
It is also important for us to stress best practice, particularly in the area of research and development.
For this reason it is important to obtain information on the functioning of these services.
What is important to us is the health of workers, however they are contracted and whatever their method of work.
Systematically evaluating cases in which the wrong decision or wrong action was taken will be particularly important for staff training.
The Community's cooperation is to be focused on the transport and health sectors.
The proposal also takes account of the development of new diagnostic tools and vaccines, and of the opinions given by the Scientific Committee on these issues.
This reminds us of the importance of scientific investigation, so that informed answers can be given to technically complex matters such as this.
Hygiene plays a very important part in connection with disease.
It deserves proper and transparent treatment.
In my opinion, the information desks should focus on the role of offering guidance to the consumer.
This evaluation process is taking place in the wider context of the report.
Secondly: public health.
Normally, you set up the group of experts first and then adopt a directive on the subject in question.
Information and consultation are also currently under discussion.
Not simply information, therefore, but also consultation.
This will obviously incur a cost, which should not, however, be dependent on gender or an individual health check.
What is the proposed procedure?
That will need to be determined case-by-case and situation-by-situation.
In our opinion, they also encourage investment in research and the development of new medicines.
We believe that these concerns regarding public health can, legitimately, be considered as good grounds for granting a compulsory licence.
This group of countries also stressed that the use of compulsory licensing was a crucial instrument for putting in place these public health policies and giving wider access to medicines.
We are among those who draw attention to the issue of access to medicines.
Admittedly, there are other issues including those relating to public health systems and the availability of care.
We must bear in mind that the policies and procedures adopted by the registry will need to reflect best practice in the field.
The diagnosis is clear: what we need now is treatment, proposed and discussed freely and openly.
We agree on the diagnosis of the specific problems.
What does matter is the quality of the solutions and the vision that they project.
Secondly, you had the case checked in the Rules of Procedure.
Paragraph 109 calls for a guarantee that everyone in the territory of the Union is given access to health care, that is, regardless of their residential status.
We MEPs who follow these issues recognise that.
It is therefore necessary to apply the Rules of Procedure in a rational way.
You can see, then, how we deal with questions of this type.
This of course, Mr President, bearing in mind their healthy, effective and transparent management.
We believe that, in the cases where it is established that there is a major problem, these must also be followed up with actual action plans.
First, the fight against communicable diseases.
The action plan on fighting communicable diseases was adopted by the Council earlier this year.
The Chinese are a patient people.
These cases involve terrible, heartrending pain, which is also worthy of comment by this House.
Programmes under consideration for funding in 2001 include a major health programme on primary health care, and that will also cover HIV/AIDS in selected provinces.
We have proceeded with consultations as with a co-decision procedure.
The report is in favour of an enhanced consultation procedure with a view to reaching agreement.
That presupposes a duty to inform and consult on the part of the employer.
It must be more than paying lip service to consultation.
The protection of health, the necessity of dealing with safety at work or the issue which Mr Menrad is always pursuing: employee participation.
We need to be aware of these issues.
The operations funded focused mostly on basic healthcare.
This inquiry must not be confined to 'the management of SENSUS' .
These are matters which I am addressing in my report.
We need to respond to that in terms of both research and the action resulting from that research.
Care must therefore be taken to calculate the number of journeys correctly, so that sanctions are not wrongly applied.
One of our assessment criteria must be to ask what our own services actually do.
The report contains various important recommendations.
On the internal policies, the medicines' agency and orphan medicines were one of the issues mentioned.
The specialists know what this is about; if you like and if you put the question, I will explain it to you.
This also helps to minimise the risk of infection.
In conclusion, the safety, quality and standard of blood and blood products is an important issue which we have to get right.
The 'responsible person' is, according to the proposal, charged with administrative and management tasks in relation to the application of the directive, and does not have medical responsibilities per se.
That is what they are there for, and the citizen is entitled to expect good services.
Treatment after gathering is required to guarantee optimum storage, transport and distribution conditions. I should like to reiterate what I said earlier.
We will have this carefully examined and you will be informed of the outcome in due course.
When we deal with legislation which intimately affects human health we must exercise great care and attention.
Finally, common standards would be defined for staff training and for the traceability of blood from donor to patient.
The processing of blood at all stages must be a service carried out for the Member States' health services for the benefit of patients.
Should the relationship between doctor and donor be based on trust or solely on a financial relationship?
There is therefore a procedure which allows any Member State that wants to to use vaccination, and that is how it is done.
This is what must make us aware of our responsibilities.
It is currently preparing an action plan on equal treatment for men and women which should deal with this problem.
There are unscrupulous doctors and other individuals who earn between DM 1000 and 3000 per case.
The mortality rate among those who are subjected to this practice is high.
Parents must give some thought to how they treat their children and prevent their being treated unequally from the cradle onwards.
Best practice approaches will help us all benefit from an exchange of experience and devise effective measures to combat the problem.
Perhaps, as I said before, we should deal with the definition before the procedure.
Quite apart from your personal health problems, it is a matter of courtesy.
We feel a thorough examination of each asylum demand and a decision should be based on each individual case.
Situations such as that which Toulouse has recently experienced require the use of human resources, such as the fire services, first-aid workers, doctors, hospital and voluntary staff.
In this connection, the guidelines and opinions of the World Health Organisation should be taken into consideration.
Management is, therefore, preceded by an assessment.
Mr President, in my profession, I meet people with health problems caused by noise.
Therefore health and safety should be our foremost concern.
Decision on urgent procedure
However, this is a compassionate report, one with which we can be satisfied but not complacent.
So we need to get the procedure under control.
Although the symptoms are similar, it is important to distinguish the causes and find different answers.
Lastly, I wish to emphasise that we need to adopt a prudent approach to a sensitive issue that requires intelligent answers.
Annual reports are useful, but joint action is preferable, of course.
(FR) On specific cases, I would say that direct responsibility for monitoring trials lies with the ICRC.
On the other hand, the procedure referred to in question E-1336/01 earlier more specifically concerns problems surrounding the misapplication of Directive 89/48 to the psychology profession.
This is a healthy and sensible approach.
The response to that must be measured and specifically targeted at the people and organisations responsible.
So evaluation comes before management.
As you know, this question relates to decisions concerning several agencies.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you gave the issue of public health a special mention.
I would be interested to know how you see the division of responsibilities between the United Nations and the World Health Organisation. What are your priorities here?
I would like to highlight two essential elements of the report - and I will comment on the various interventions in relation to them.
The market is said to be harmful to the health service because patients would be unable to assess the services provided.
It is important that we should be required to consider the safety of services and to examine proposals to this end in reasonably quick time.
It would appear that investment in treatment of tropical diseases is not profitable enough for pharmaceutical companies.
This is necessary to tailor pharmaceutical research more to existing needs.
Therefore more research into, and investment in, treatment of tropical diseases, but also investment in remedies which can be used in developing countries.
The situation with regard to the diseases we are discussing here today is critical.
We must not only concentrate on medicine. We must, of course, also concentrate on restructuring.
The local health NGOs should be able to receive funds in order to carry out their day-to-day work of prevention and of supporting patients.
They should be involved in drawing up aid programmes in this field and be incorporated into public health action.
Thirdly, everyone should have access to treatment.
This means that medication should be sold at cost price to people in developing countries.
We need to find new preventive and curative treatments that are more effective, and more importantly better adapted to local populations.
It is crucial to improve the skills of doctors, scientists, nurses and technicians in the poorest countries.
I would particularly support the establishment of a global infectious disease fund and the introduction of compulsory licences to improve the availability of medicines.
In any action taken, however, it has to be borne in mind that, without viable basic health care, no other developments are possible.
According to the UNDP's recent figures less than 10% of global spending on health research addresses 90% of the global disease burden.
Our own citizens who are HIV positive are able to access long-term treatment with effective medication.
Also, if a patient is not disciplined in taking his medicines regularly and in the correct dosage, they lose their effect.
Often these changes give rise to criticism, especially where the general availability of healthcare is concerned.
This would mean that a person' s health would be governed by his income.
Our own healthcare problems are dwarfed by those of the majority of the world' s population.
We will have to operate on two levels to combat these diseases.
In the first place, by participating on a micro level in healthcare improvement projects.
I want us and the Commissioner to keep those people who are dying of these diseases in mind and see what we can do.
For all these diseases which today can be cured and eradicated, there are drugs.
Health is fully on our agenda now, and the same is true of our own Member States.
Health in developing countries is, together with education, one of the six priorities for the Commission for 2002.
Reconciling the low capacity of health systems with, in particular, care and work on administering anti-retroviral drugs to AIDS and HIV-positive patients is an extremely difficult task.
They are doing everything they can to organise their work on the ground and use these advanced types of medicine in ongoing treatment.
Furthermore it can solve the problem of creating a better basis for starting up medicine production in developing countries.
The question of access to medicines, an issue brought up by many, is currently being discussed at the TRIPS Council in Geneva.
The discussions have sought to strike a balance between the need to pursue access to affordable medicines and the implementation of the TRIPS Agreement.
This should comprise all essential and key medicines.
In paragraph 38 the report calls for the establishment of a fund for infectious diseases.
They concern the balance between prevention and care, especially in relation to HIV/AIDS.
It is of prime and capital importance to use public-sector means to fight disease and secure the right to health.
Health situation in the Republic of Uzbekistan
The situation there is disastrous, including in the area of public health.
Mr Wiebenga and I visited the local hospital in Nukus where patients with TB are treated. The situation there is degrading.
This should serve as an example to us of how, with tenacity and patience, we can achieve positive results and help good causes.
The fact that in the race for money and profit, a great many people's health is put at risk is enough to make anyone's blood run cold.
This means that we should review issues such as compulsory licences with an eye to research and public health.
For example, management and labour in a business can, through agreements, arrive at a special made-to-measure arrangement on information and consultation for that business.
Article 1 prescribes that the procedure should be carried on in a spirit of cooperation.
extending consultation in particularly serious cases; extending the concept of a serious breach of the obligations to inform and consult; the implementation of the directive on public administration.
The second point is best practices.
The question is: to what extent is a policy being adopted to actually learn something from those best practices?
How many best practices have been discussed in the different Member States?
Diseases that we thought were under control, such as tuberculosis or the plague, are re-appearing and are posing a serious threat to human health, particularly in developing countries.
However, the report mentions the need to save money on health care costs.
We know only too well that, when it comes to making savings on medical spending, it is always the health care of the working classes, and particularly the poorest sectors of society, that suffers.
In the light of this report, the follow-up action that needs to be taken should subsequently be determined.
We urgently need to examine the question of whether the services provided by the agencies are actually needed and then put to good use.
One particular success is on the issue of the budget line associated with the approval of orphan drugs by the medicines agency.
I still have grave concerns about the state of health of our colleagues in the various institutions.
We had requested a report on sickness absence for this year.
We will have to get to grips with this and take steps to improve the health of our colleagues in the institutions in question.
Potilas tuli vastaanotolle rintakivun vuoksi.
Lääkäri tutki potilaan ja määräsi lisätutkimuksia.
Sairaanhoitaja mittasi verenpaineen ja pulssin.
Potilaalla todettiin korkea kuume ja infektio.
Hoito aloitettiin antibiooteilla.
Potilas siirrettiin sairaalaan jatkohoitoa varten.
Diagnoosi varmistettiin laboratoriokokeilla.
Lääkäri arvioi potilaan yleisvoinnin.
Potilas kärsi kroonisesta sairaudesta.
Hoidon tavoitteena on oireiden lievittäminen.
